For this exercise, you were asked to detail six individual initiatives
that you would recommend a business undertake in order to promote a data-driven culture.
I will provide six example initiatives that I would personally recommend.
Keep in mind that your answers may differ from those that I've presented.
First, drive strategy from the top-down,
engaging leadership all the way up to the C-suite,
will help you gain and maintain buy-in and support.
Second, promote data and data science projects
by over-communicating throughout the business.
Liberally sharing the objectives and achievements of your data science initiatives,
will help infuse data science into the business culture.
Third, drive projects initially towards proof of concept,
rather than trying to fully solve the problem all at once.
Proofs of concepts and prototypes allow you to maintain momentum with
incremental wins rather than risking
failure by driving towards a single massive solution.
Fourth, encourage employees to get in the habit of asking
colleagues to provide data to support decisions or discussions.
Employees should eventually naturally bring data to bear in
nearly all conversations to justify recommendations or provide a basis for action.
Provide company wide access to core data via platforms such as Mode, Looker or Tableau.
Platforms such as these go a long way towards democratizing data
access without requiring deep technical and programming skills.
Finally, provide access to education and training modules through online platforms.
Just-in-time training provides an efficient way to deliver
specific technical education in an intentional, precise manner.